# Complete-Single-Game-Baseball-Simulation

How to Use the Complete Single Game Baseball Simulation

Step1: Make sure ALL excel files are downloaded 

Step2: Pick Lineups and Pitchers. There are two batting excel files which must be filled out completely. The baseballlineup2 file is about who is on the team. Any player who will be in the lineup must be added with their correct batting hand. Order does not matter for this file. For the batting lineup, go to the baseballlineup file and find the team you wish to simulate and enter the player, batting hand, and position number into the spreadsheet. Some teams are not there since different games are played each day. If the team is not there just add one at the bottom in the same format as every other teams. Team names and players must be typed in exactly as they are in the rest of the format. If you are unsure of a player name check the ID excel page. Some players have a Jr after their names so it can be tricky. Team names are also only one word so it would be RedSox instead of Red Sox. If you want a pitcher to bat just put a pitcherA or pitcherB in the lineup since most pitchers do not have enough at-bats to make the model work. This is the same for any minor league player or hurt player but you would put a MidRepA or MidRepB in there. Just make sure they are on the baseballlineup2 file before putting them in your lineup and that all the A players go on one team and all the B players are on the other team. If you have designator hitters then put their position as 1 in the batting lineup. 

For pitchers, check the pitcher lineup page. Starting pitchers are at the top of the page where you can change their total pitches allowed and how many max runs before they get pulled. Bullpens are below where you can do the same thing as starting pitchers with runs and pitches but also set when they have the highest probability to enter the game.

Step 3: Go to part 1 of the model in R and enter each team name in the Home Team and Away team section. Then Run the entire page. It is very big so it can take some time and I would recommend using a desktop as a lot of RAM is used.

Step 4: Go to part 2 of the model In R. This is separate from the first section because with so many games this allows the user to get the first part of the calculations done before lineups come out. Now once again enter the teams in the HomeTeam and AwayTeam section. Also enter any stadium you wish by choosing the team name such as “Dodgers.” Then pick the TotalGames which is the amount of times the game will be simulated. These games do take a long time so be careful about how many games you pick. On my average desktop it takes between 1-2 hours to simulate one game 1000 times. The last thing which needs to be done are to pick the temperature, wind, and humidity you want the game to be played in. Now just run everything on the page.

Step 5: Go to part 3 of the model In R and just run the loop which is the actual game being played. At the very bottom of the page I will include some commands to run so you can see the stats of the games which were just simulated. 
